# Unsupervised sentiment analysis of newsfeed on Kazakhstan using sustainable methods
Abstract
The purpose of this research is to create an unsupervised model of contextual sentiment analysis in Russian language, which can be then used as a universal basis and applied to any other language. The main question it poses: Can an unsupervised model of sentiment analysis of text in Russian be created using sustainable coding?
Approaching this question required constructing a methodology that creates a dictionary with sentiment values of Russian words and phrases. For this dissertation we have constructed the model based on “Word2Vec”, “K-Means” and “TfidfVectorizer”. Beginning with pre-processing of initial data, like sentences and full-texts, which is prepared and cleaned for further handling, it is then converted into a list of vectors with values representative of textual notion (positive or negative) using word embedding (“Word2Vec”). Furthermore, by creating K-Means clustering model, two centroids of positive and negative sentiment values are identified. Applying this approach helped to allocate all input word-vectors to the appropriate sentiment value group (positive or negative), considering distance from its centroid. Results are measured in accuracy, precision, recall and F1-score metrics. Additionally, those results are compared with those of RNN and Naïve Bayes models ran on the same initial dataset. 
This research shows that the model can create successfully: two clusters of words with negative and positive notions, vocabulary where each word is assigned a vector value, according to its sentiment value and predict a sentiment value of the test set with the maximum accuracy achieved of 69 %. The model shows satisfactory performance in some cases, but it is possible that the size of the dictionary created does not cover all the words of a vast language. In conclusion, if the model is provided with an input of textual data with a rich and diverse contextual value, sentiment analysis performance can be improved, and the results would be higher.
Keywords:
Natural language processing, unsupervised, sentiment value, clustering analysis, sustainable coding.
